in this video we'll talk about matrix
matrix multiplication or how to multiply
two matrices together when we talk about
the method in linear regression for how
to solve for the parameters theta 0 and
theta 1 all in one shot so that without
needing an iterative algorithm like
gradient descent when we talk about that
algorithm it turns out that matrix
matrix multiplication is one of the key
steps that you need to know so let's as
usual start of an example let's say I
have two matrices and I want to multiply
them together let me again just work
through this example and then I'll tell
you in a little bit what happens so the
first thing I'm gonna do is I'm going to
pull out the first column of this matrix
on the right and I'm going to take this
matrix on the left and multiply it by
you know a vector that's just this first
column okay and it turns out if I do
that I'm going to get the vector 11:9 so
this is the same your matrix vector
multiplication as you saw in the last
video I work this out in advance I know
it's 11 9 and then the second thing I'm
going to do is I'm going to pull out the
second column this matrix on the right
and I'm then going to you know take this
matrix on the left right so I think that
matrix and multiply it by that second
column on the right so again this is a
matrix vector multiplication step which
is so from the previous video and it
turns out that if you multiply this
matrix in this vector you get 10:14 and
by the way if you want to practice your
matrix vector multiplication feel free
to pause the video and check this
product yourself then I'm just going to
take these two results and put them
together and that would be my answer so
turns out the outcome of this product is
gonna be a two by two matrix and the way
I'm going to throw in this matrix is
just by taking you know my elements 11 9
and plugging them here and taking 10:14
and plugging them into
the second column okay so that was the
mechanics of how to multiply a matrix by
another matrix you basically look at the
second Matrix one column at a time and
you assemble the answers and again we'll
step through this much more carefully in
a second
but just one point out also this first
example is a 2x3 matrix multiplying that
by a three by two matrix and the outcome
of this product that turns out to be a
two by two matrix then again we'll see
in a second why this was the case all
right that was the mechanics of the
calculation
unless let's actually look at the
details and look at them what exactly
happened here are the details I have a
matrix a and one two I want to multiply
that with a matrix B and the result will
be some new matrix C and it turns out
you can only multiply together matrices
whose dimensions match so a is an M by n
matrix or M rows and columns and we'll
multiply that with an N by M matrix so
it turns out this end here must match
this n here so the number of columns in
the first matrix must equal to the
number of rows in the second Matrix and
the result of this product will be a M
by o matrix like the matrix C here and
in the previous video everything we did
correspond to the special case of o
being equal to one okay that was those
two the case of B being a vector but now
we're gonna view of the case of values
of a larger than one so here's how you
multiply together the two matrices in
order to get what I'm going to do is I'm
going to take the first column of B and
treat that as a vector and multiply the
matrix a or the first column of B and
the result of that will be a M by 1
vector and I'm gonna put that over here
then I'm going to take the second column
of B right so this is another n by 1
vector so this column here this is right
n by one was an in dimensional vector
going to multiply this matrix with this
n by 1 vector the result will be a M
dimensional vector which will be put
there and so on okay and so you know and
then I'm going to take the third column
multiplied by this matrix I get a
dimensional vector and so on until you
get to the last column times the matrix
times the last column gives you the last
column of C just to say that again
the if-- column of the matrix C is
obtained by taking the matrix a and
multiplying the matrix a with the I've
column of the matrix B for the values of
I equals 1 2 up through oh ok so this is
just a summary of what we did up there
in order to compute a matrix C let's
look at just one more example let's say
I want to multiply together these two
matrices so what I'm going to do is
first pull out the first column of my
second matrix that those images beyond
those my matrix B on the previous slide
and I therefore have this matrix times a
vector and so let's do this calculation
quickly this is going to be equal to
right 1 3 times 0 3 so that gives 1
times 0 plus 3 times 3 and the second
element only to 5 times 0 3 so
definitely 2 times 0 plus 5 times 3 and
that is 915 ok
I hope actually let me write that in
green so this is 9
Dean and Nick's I'm going to pull out
the second column of this and do the
corresponding calculation so there's
that this matrix times this vector 1 2
let's also do this quickly so this 1
times 1 plus 3 times 2 so just that was
that row and let's do the other one so
let's see that gives me what 2 times 1
plus x 2 and so that is going to be
equal to let's see 1 times 1 plus 3
times 1 is 4 and 2 times 1 plus 5 times
2 is as well so now I have these two and
so my outcome so the product of these
two matrices is going to be this goes
here and this goes here so I get 9 15
and 4 12 and you you may notice also
that the result of multiplying a 2 by 2
matrix with another 2 by 2 matrix the
resulting dimension is going to be that
first two times that second two so the
result is itself also a 2 by 2 matrix
finally let me show you one more neat
trick that you can do with matrix matrix
multiplication let's say as before that
we have four houses whose prices we want
to predict only now we have three
competing hypotheses shown here on the
right so if you want to apply all three
competing hypotheses to all four of your
houses it turns out you can do that very
efficiently using a matrix matrix
multiplication so here on the left is my
usual matrix same as from the last video
where you know these values on my
housing prices and I'll put once here on
the left as well and what I'm going to
do is
strucked another matrix where here these
the first column is this minus 40 and
0.25 and the second column is this 200
open one and so on okay and it turns out
that if you multiply these two matrices
what you find is that this first column
you know open Jordan and blue well how
do you get this first column write a
procedure for matrix matrix
multiplication is the way you get this
first column as you tip this matrix and
you multiply it by this first column and
we saw in the previous video that this
is exactly the predicted housing prices
of the first hypothesis rate of this
first hypothesis year and how about the
second column well how do you set you
can second column the way you get the
second column is well you take this
matrix and you multiply it by this
second column and so the second column
turns out to be the predictions of the
second hypothesis of the second
hypothesis up there and similarly for
the third column and so I didn't step
through all the details but hopefully in
just a few feet uh you know pause the
video and check the math yourself and
check that what I just claimed really is
true but it turns out that by
constructing these two matrices what you
can therefore do is very quickly apply
all three hypotheses to all four whole
sizes to get you know all 12 predicted
prices output by your three hypotheses
on your four houses so with just one
matrix multiplication step you managed
to make 12 predictions and even better
it turns out that in order to do that
matrix multiplication there are lots of
good linear algebra libraries in order
to do this multiplication step for you
and no matter so pretty much any
reasonable programming language that you
might be used
you know certainly all the top 10 most
popular program Angeles will have great
linear algebra libraries and there'll be
good linear algebra libraries that are
highly optimized in order to do that
matrix matrix multiplication very
efficiently including taking taking
advantage of any sort of parallel
computation that your computer may be
capable of whether your computer has you
know multiple cores or some multiple
processors or so within the processor
sometimes as this parallelism as well
called sandy parallelism they compute
and take care of and you should be the
and there are very good free libraries
that you can use to do this matrix
matrix multiplication very efficiently
so that you can very efficiently you
know make lots of predictions of lots of
hypotheses